[Music]
we all use it every day hopefully not
all of us at the same time the John the
throne the laboratory the potty the
commode the latrine of privy the toilet
no matter what you call it public
restrooms aren't always the most
pleasant experience the germs unspoken
etiquette no one likes to talk about it
it can be a tender subject but fright
cider today's your lucky day have a seat
why why our public toilet seats shaped
like a you may know not you like you oh
this isn't what they're like at home
right
so why the open center in the front of
the seat well there are two reasons one
is for Plumbing Codes
beginning in 1995 it was mandated for
public toilet seats to have this shape
an open seat across the board the second
reason is for hygiene purposes to keep
that part of the toilet as far from your
most sensitive areas as possible as it
could have some unwanted droplets on it
number two do those toilet seat covers
really make it more hygienic sorry but
no not significantly anyways the fact is
there are some bacterium in public
bathrooms that only need one cell to get
inside your body in order to make you
sick such as norovirus that little space
in between the u-shaped seat may still
have dribbles of urine on it
and it will just soak through the cover
your best bet is the squat
number three are some stalls cleaner
than others well kind of it turns out
that most of us gravitate toward the
center stalls think about it
you tend to do this in a study conducted
by Psychological Science one public
bathroom was studied for ten weeks oh
that must have been fun results showed
that of the toilet paper rolls that
needed to be changed 60% of them
belonged to center stalls so the outside
stalls are used less frequency but that
doesn't necessarily mean they're cleaner
just because it looks clean doesn't mean
that it is remember that norovirus I
mentioned for is it safe to take my
drink with me into the stall what do you
think No
hey we've all done it but it's a really
unsanitary habit and putting a lid on
your drink doesn't make it any better
say nature calls and you set your drink
on top of the toilet paper dispenser or
even on the sink there are over three
million bacteria per square inch in that
toilet bowl just to give you some
perspective when you flush all that
bacteria is pushed up into the air from
the bowl and that piping that sucks all
the water down all that bacteria will
cling to your mug or cup yeah five so
what should I do with my drink if I have
to go well it's best to leave your drink
on your desk or have a friend hold it
for you
but these aren't always an option if you
must put your drink or mug on the sink
put clean paper towels down first
set your drink on it do your business
and wash and dry your hands thoroughly
grab another handful of clean paper
towels use some to wipe the outside of
your cup or mug and another clean
fistful to carry your drink with if
needed use the rest of your paper towels
to open the door number six what exactly
is the proper hand washing technique
while we're on the subject of hygiene
let's talk about the right way to wash
our hands wet your hands under running
water first when it comes to the water
itself the temperature actually doesn't
matter just keep it running
then use liquid or bar soap preferably
one that disinfects and work it into a
lather rub the soap on the top of your
hands and between your fingers don't
forget to get under those nails you
should wash for at least 20 seconds
rinse your hands completely and dry it
with a clean towel
bonus tip need a way to keep track of
those 20 seconds sing the Happy Birthday
song twice out loud
who knows folks behind the stalls might
join in 7 what if I'm loyal to my hand
sanitiser
oh it's definitely better than nothing
if the sinks aren't working or if the
soap is run out but keep in mind that
it's not as effective as washing your
hands using the technique I just talked
about make sure your hand sanitizer is
at least 60% alcohol know that hand
sanitizers don't get rid of all types of
germs it may also be unable to remove
certain chemicals from your hands like
if you've been working with metals or
pesticides but it's never a bad idea to
keep some on and now here are some good
to know tips for public bathroom
etiquette if you aren't handicapped
don't use the handicap stall many of us
are probably guilty of it but just don't
do it
it might seem convenient if you have a
bunch of shopping bags but you never
know when someone may come in who
genuinely needs the handicap stall for
all the right reasons so don't put your
shopping bags on the bathroom floor
anyway a public restroom is not the time
or place for a handshake if you're out
and you bump into someone you know in
the bathroom your first instinct might
be to shake their hand or touch them
with a greeting
resist the temptation we all know why
we're in the bathroom and your hand
might be wet from washing but the other
person doesn't know that for sure
don't talk between stalls or urinals
this one is especially for the workplace
you and your coworker might have gone
into the bathroom together but you don't
know who else is in there or who else
might come in you don't want the wrong
person to overhear what you're talking
about plus we all just want to do our
business in peace generally keep the
restroom a quiet place some of us have
to concentrate when you're at the sink
stay focused
experts say that chatting at the sink
while washing your hands is a no-no they
say that you should just focus on
getting your hands clean and avoid eye
contact just get in and get out remember
that it's a public restroom you don't
know who might be in there and you never
know if you'll accidentally make someone
uncomfortable while they're on the John
there are way better places to have a
conversation give people space between
stalls whenever possible don't pick the
stall right next to somebody put a stall
or two between you if the restroom isn't
crowded it's just weird and
uncomfortable to hear someone else doing
their most private business and they
don't want to hear you either keep in
mind that in our own houses our
bathrooms are likely the most private
room complete with a lock where we can
enjoy our privacy
not so much in public restrooms so give
people some space public restrooms are
no place for your phone unless you have
it on silent mode it's best to refrain
from playing games on your phone in a
public restroom it's rude to make other
people hear the sounds especially the
ones coming from your phone this goes
for taking phone calls too even if
you're waiting in line no one wants to
hear your phone conversation while
they're sitting on the potty even just
having your phone out could put people
on edge in our world of social media no
one really knows what you're doing with
that phone in the bathroom of all places
don't let the TP get down to cardboard
we've all been in that gut-wrenching
situation where we go into the stall of
a crowded public restroom and there's no
dang toilet paper on the roll
Oh what should you do experts say that
it's perfectly fine to ask the person
next to you to hand you some TP under
the stall wall do the same if the poor
soul next to you ask for some toilet
paper if your roll is running low try to
leave enough for the next person and let
cleaning staff know that your stall was
showing some cardboard don't jiggle the
door handle say you're standing in front
of a one-person bathroom and you aren't
sure if there's anyone inside
don't go jiggling the handle or knocking
if there is someone inside you probably
just made them jump just turn the handle
or knob gently to the left or right if
it doesn't move that means it's most
likely occupied because someone locked
the door from the inside if the handle
moves it's probably safe to proceed
finally use the fan please it's a
little-known fact but many public
restaurants are equipped with a fan also
known as an exhaust fan it will
circulate the air in the bathroom in
case you aren't able to leave it
smelling as fresh as a daisy
there should be a switch on the wall
look for it search for it the next
person will thank you some restrooms are
stocked with air freshener - feel free
to use this as well no one likes talking
about doing their business so the less
evidence of it you leave behind the
better bottom line bottom line now you
do know squat about bathroom matters hey
if you learn something new today give
this video a like and share with a
friend here are some other videos I
think you'll enjoy just click to the
left or right and remember stay on the
bright side of life
[Music]